Reflection:

How was working from User Stories?
Having the user stories to work from made my work a lot easier as I could easily understand
what the challenge was looking for and what conditions were necessary for the application.

How was it having the test cases before you started development?
Having the test cases before I started developing the solution made my job a lot easier because
I knew exactly what my application should do. If all the test cases pass then my solution is correct.

How did you use Generative AI?
I didn't use any generative AI as I felt I didn't need to and I would be able to complete the
challenge without using an generative AI. I already new how to make a html page, if statements, loops and functions before
taking part in this challenge.

What are the risks of using Generative AI?
The risks of using generative AI is that you might not actually understand the code you are
Working with, because it has been generated by an AI instead of your own brain and research.

How did you implement the code?
I implemented the code by first building a basic html page then creating a Javascript and css file.
Then I created the following functions in my Javascript file: submitButton, checkCreditCard, validateName and validateEmail. The checkCreditCard function takes an input and returns true or false based on whether the input fits the standard for credit card numbers based on the LUHN algorithm. Both the validateName and validateEmail function use regular expressions to test whether or not the input
entered into the input html box is valid. If it is valid the box will be highlighted green else it will be highlighted pink. Finally
I created the submitButton function which creates a new window to send a email using mailto but only when the validateName, validateEmail
and checkCreditCard all return true.
Throughout my code I used console.logs to test that what the code I had written was actually doing and that it was functioning as
I intended it too. An example of this is writing console.log("submit"); at the start of my submitButton function this will tell
me in the console if the function is successfully being called or not after the submit button is clicked on the webpage.
I then decided to change the html foundation of my webpage by using html tables and rows instead of labels. The reason for this
is because my input boxes were out of alignment but using tables and rows made all of the input boxes perfectly aligned.

What have you learned?
This challenge forced me to check up on my regular expression knowledge for the name and email validation.
In order to pass the third test I had to add "{2}" to my nameRegex variable.
I learnt how to add a new line to mailto in Javascript using "/n" and template literals.
I learnt how to write a function that can validate a credit card number using the LUHN algorithm.

What would you do differently?
What I would do differently is I would write more comments as I am writing the code instead of adding my comments at the end
after I had finished writing the functionality of my project. Test 12 checks that the credit card number is not too long and
if it is too long then the box field should become highlighted in pink. I can only pass this test if I purposely make the input
field able to be longer than 16 numbers which I have done. What I would do differently is to set maxLength to 16 so that it is
impossible for the credit to be longer than 16 numbers, reducing the risk of errors.

Github link: https://github.com/MichaelWaterfall/software-dev-short-challenge-v0.2



